{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red221\green32\blue103;\red0\green0\blue0;\red251\green2\blue7;
\red102\green177\blue50;\red252\green39\blue18;\red18\green145\blue206;\red85\green142\blue40;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red183\green111\blue179;\red193\green193\blue193;\red140\green211\blue254;\red194\green126\blue101;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c90234\c23206\c47866;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;
\cssrgb\c46532\c73327\c25364;\cssrgb\c100000\c25271\c7591;\cssrgb\c0\c63852\c84489;\cssrgb\c39975\c61335\c20601;\csgray\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c77255\c52549\c75294;\cssrgb\c80000\c80000\c80000;\cssrgb\c61176\c86275\c99608;\cssrgb\c80784\c56863\c47059;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww34000\viewh21400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx15381\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Module-02\ulnone : \ul Igniting Our App\
\

\f1\b0\fs28 \ulnone Making our app ready for productions which requires other packages as well apart from React.\
\

\f0\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Package:01\ulnone  \'97 \ul NPM
\f1\b0 \ulnone  (Manages the packages)(Repository for all the packages)(Whatever Package we need is available inside the npm)\

\f0\b \ul \

\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone To use npm inside the project write the command in the terminal :- 
\f0\b \cf4 npm init
\f1\b0  \cf3 (Humne npm init -y command phi Padhi hai they both do the same but dark surf inna hai ki -y wali command likhe se hum additional information jo puchi jaati h use skip kardete hai and directly packages.json karaoke file hai use leke aa jaate h)\
\

\f0\b \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Package.json:
\f1\b0 \ulnone \'97\cf3  Is the configuration for the npm. It keeps track of all the dependencies our project is using.\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Defines the project's metadata, dependencies, and configuration. Essential for project setup and replication.It is important to put into the GitHub this is because issi ki madas se dependencies->node_modules install kia ja skta h just write 
\f0\b \cf6 npm install 
\f1\b0 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
Now we can install packages in our project.\
\

\f0\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Package:02\ulnone  - \ul Bundler
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone  : \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 A "bundler package" generally refers to a tool or library used in web development to bundle JavaScript files and other assets (such as HTML, CSS, and images) for deployment. Common Bundler Packages are:\
		a. WebPack.   b.Parcel.    c.vite\
\
		We can use use any of these rightnow we are using parcel.\
		\
		
\f0\b \cf6 npm install -D parcel
\f1\b0 . \cf3 We are installing it as dev dependency \cf7 \
	\
		
\f0\b ^/~
\f1\b0  -> This means that when the new version of the dependency will come into market then this version will be replaced by the new version of it.\
\
		^ : For minor upgrades.\
		~ : For major upgrades.\
\

\f0\b \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Package-lock.json
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone  :- Keeps the track of exact versions of the dependencies installed. \cf0 \strokec3 package-lock.json\strokec3  is a file automatically generated by npm (Node Package Manager) when you run commands like \strokec3 npm install\strokec3 . It is used to ensure that a project\'92s dependencies are installed exactly as specified, making the project more reliable and reproducible. \

\f0\b \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \
Node_modules
\f1\b0 \cf0 \ulnone  :- Contains the actual code for all installed dependencies. Essential for running the project but typically excluded from version control.This is not pushed into GitHub hence .gitignore file is created.It can be generated again using package.json\
Github pr sir whit jo regenerate nhii ho site else ignore.\
\
Every dependency installed has its own package.json so there are not only one but more than one package.json.(Transitive dependency)\
\
To run application: 
\f0\b \cf6 npx parcel index.html
\f1\b0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6099\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx15381\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf3 For installing the package we use - npm \
For executing the package we use - npx\
\
\

\f0\b\fs36 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Method - 02 To get React in Our Application\

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf3 \ulnone To install react as package - 
\f0\b \cf4 npm install react\
							npm install react-dom
\f1\b0 \

\f0\b\fs36 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 \

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf3 \ulnone Now we no longer need CDN\
\
But still it will give error that 
\f0\b React is not defined to use it
\f1\b0  - \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf4 \cb9 \strokec10 import\strokec11  \strokec12 React\strokec11  \strokec10 from\strokec11  \strokec13 'react'\strokec11 ;\
\strokec10 import\strokec11  \strokec12 ReactDOM\strokec11  \strokec10 from\strokec11  \strokec13 'react-dom'\strokec11 ;\

\f1\b0 \cf11 \cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6099\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx15381\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \strokec3 \
\cf3 In app.js file\
This is done so that react can be used from the node_modules into our application.\
\cf4 \

\f0\b \cf3 But now error - Browser scripts cannot have import and export (
\f1\b0 Because here it is considering it as the normal javascript of the browser and normal javascript does not have imports and exports)\
To correct this we need to mention that this is a module and not the normal javascript.\
\

\f0\b \cf2 Parcel: 
\f1\b0 \cf3 1. Dev Build\
	    2. Local Server\
	    3. HMR = Hot Module Replacement (Changes in the application are reflected as soon as we save the file by using 
\f0\b File watching algorithm
\f1\b0  written in c++.)\
 		4. Faster Builds using Caching 
\f0\b (parcel-cache)\
		
\f1\b0 5. Image Optimization\
		6. Magnification\
		7. Bundling\
		8. Compressing\
		9. Code splitting\
		10. Consistent hashing\
		11. Differential bundling - support older Browsers\
		12. Allows Https Hosting as well as \
		13. Error Handling\
\
React make things fast but also so many things like parcel(which also uses libraries) make the application fast.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 In summary, 
\f0\b \cf4 npx parcel index.html
\f1\b0 \cf0  is used during development for serving and watching changes, while 
\f0\b \cf4 npx parcel build index.html
\f1\b0 \cf0  is used to generate an optimized production build for deployment.\
\

\f0\b \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Dist
\f1\b0 \cf0 \ulnone  - \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 where you find the final, optimized version of your web application ready for deployment after running a build process. Can be Regenerated. Do not host on GitHub.\cf4 \strokec3 \
\

\f0\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Package:03 - BrowserList 
\f1\b0 \cf4 \ulnone : \cf0 \strokec3 ensuring compatibility and optimal performance across different\
browsers.\
Eg:\

\f0\b \cf4 \strokec3 Package.json Mei\'97\'93browserslist\'94:[\
	\'93last 2 Chrome version\'94]\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 Have a look at browsers list website for reference what to write here.}